README.md, before:

# Private Collection Matching Protocols
This repository accompanies the paper *"Private Collection Matching Protocols"* by Kasra
EdalatNejad (SPRING Lab, EPFL), Mathilde Raynal(SPRING Lab, EPFL), Wouter Lueks (CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security), and Carmela Troncoso (SPRING Lab, EPFL).

> **Abstract:**
> We introduce Private Collection Matching (PCM) problems, in which a client aims to determine whether a collection of sets owned by a server matches their interests.
> Existing privacy-preserving cryptographic primitives cannot solve PCM problems efficiently without harming privacy.
> We propose a modular framework that enables designers to build privacy-preserving PCM systems that output one bit: whether a collection of server sets matches the client's set.
> The communication cost of our protocols scales linearly with the size of the client's set and is independent of the number of server elements.
> We demonstrate the potential of our framework by designing and implementing novel solutions for two real-world PCM problems: determining whether a dataset has chemical compounds of interest, and determining whether a document collection has relevant documents.
> Our evaluation shows that we offer a privacy gain with respect to existing works at a reasonable communication and computation cost.

## This repository

This repository serves four goals:

 1. It contains the **implementation of the framework** in Go, as well as three example applications that use the framework to solve the problems in the paper. The implementations and the applications can be found in the `GoPSI` directory. Our implementations can be evaluated by running the `bench/bench.sh` script.

 2. To reproduce our **evaluation of related work** that was included in the paper. We compared the implementation based on our framework with two other approaches (1) based on a generic SMC compiler (EMP) and (2) an extensible Circuit PSI protocol. We implemented appropriate circuits using the SMC compiler. The `relatedwork/` directory contains the benchmarking infrastructure that we used to run these works and to evaluate their results.

 3. To **store our measurements** (both of our own implementations as well as those of related work). Raw measurement data can be found in `data/raw`. This directory contains both evaluations using our framework, as well as the related works. The `data/agg` directory contains the same data in post-processed form to simplify plotting.

 4. To enable **reproducing the graphs** in the paper. The scripts in `bench/` capture the full pipeline from benchmarking, processing raw measurements, and finally preparing the graphs in the paper.

Commit message:

Bring back chem to main README

README.md, after:

# Private Collection Matching Protocols
This repository accompanies the paper *"Private Collection Matching Protocols"* by Kasra
EdalatNejad (SPRING Lab, EPFL), Mathilde Raynal(SPRING Lab, EPFL), Wouter Lueks (CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security), and Carmela Troncoso (SPRING Lab, EPFL).

> **Abstract:**
> We introduce Private Collection Matching (PCM) problems, in which a client aims to determine whether a collection of sets owned by a server matches their interests.
> Existing privacy-preserving cryptographic primitives cannot solve PCM problems efficiently without harming privacy.
> We propose a modular framework that enables designers to build privacy-preserving PCM systems that output one bit: whether a collection of server sets matches the client's set.
> The communication cost of our protocols scales linearly with the size of the client's set and is independent of the number of server elements.
> We demonstrate the potential of our framework by designing and implementing novel solutions for two real-world PCM problems: determining whether a dataset has chemical compounds of interest, and determining whether a document collection has relevant documents.
> Our evaluation shows that we offer a privacy gain with respect to existing works at a reasonable communication and computation cost.

## This repository

This repository serves four goals:

 1. It contains the **implementation of the framework** in Go, as well as three example applications that use the framework to solve the problems in the paper. The implementations and the applications can be found in the `GoPSI` directory. Our implementations can be evaluated by running the `bench/bench.sh` script. The full set of benchmarks requires a large database of fingerprints of chemical compounds. This database is too large to store, but we provide instructions in `chem/` on how to reproduce the full set.

 2. To reproduce our **evaluation of related work** that was included in the paper. We compared the implementation based on our framework with two other approaches (1) based on a generic SMC compiler (EMP) and (2) an extensible Circuit PSI protocol. We implemented appropriate circuits using the SMC compiler. The `relatedwork/` directory contains the benchmarking infrastructure that we used to run these works and to evaluate their results.

 3. To **store our measurements** (both of our own implementations as well as those of related work). Raw measurement data can be found in `data/raw`. This directory contains both evaluations using our framework, as well as the related works. The `data/agg` directory contains the same data in post-processed form to simplify plotting.

 4. To enable **reproducing the graphs** in the paper. The scripts in `bench/` capture the full pipeline from benchmarking, processing raw measurements, and finally preparing the graphs in the paper.
